01_schema_setup.md – Database Schema Creation
Project: Retail Product & Sales Analytics (PostgreSQL Setup)

This document describes the initial database schema setup used for importing and organizing the raw datasets for the project.

1. Schema Creation

A dedicated schema was created in PostgreSQL to keep all project tables grouped together:

CREATE SCHEMA finance;


All tables were imported into this schema using pgAdmin → Import/Export.

2. Imported Tables

The following raw datasets were imported:

1. sale_report

Columns:
index, SKU Code, Design No., Stock, Category, Size, Color

2. pl_march_2021

Columns:
index, Sku, Style Id, Catalog, Category, Weight,
TP 1, TP 2, MRP Old, Final MRP Old, Ajio MRP, Amazon MRP,
Amazon FBA MRP, Flipkart MRP, Limeroad MRP, Myntra MRP,
Paytm MRP, Snapdeal MRP

3. may_2022

Columns:
Same structure as pl_march_2021, plus TP

4. international_sale_report

Columns:
index, DATE, Months, CUSTOMER, Style, SKU, Size, PCS, RATE, GROSS AMT

5. expense_iigf

Columns:
index, Received Amount, Expance, plus unnamed columns

6. cloud_warehouse_comparison

Columns:
index, Shiprocket, INCREFF, plus unnamed columns

7. amazon_sale_report

Columns:
Many order-level fields including:
Order ID, Date, Status, Fulfilment, Style, SKU, Category,
Qty, Amount, ship-country, fulfilled-by, etc.

3. Data Type Observations

During import:

Most columns were loaded as TEXT, even when numeric.

Some columns contained mixed values (numbers + text), which prevented clean casting.

Several tables had unexpected unnamed columns.

index appeared in all tables but is not a reliable primary key.

At this stage, no primary keys or foreign keys were created, because the raw data requires cleaning first.

4. ERD Placeholder

An Entity Relationship Diagram will be included after:

column standardization

duplicate removal

cleaning SKU values

identifying proper primary keys

(Insert ERD screenshot here once ready)

5. Next Steps

Clean and standardize key columns (especially SKU).

Identify unique rows and create meaningful primary keys.

Build master product table.

Create foreign keys and generate the ERD.
